---
layout: documentation
title: Documentation
---

# A tour of Choral

Welcome to the Choral tutorials, where we are going to have a brief tour of Choral's key linguistic features and a few examples.[^article]
Make sure that you've read our [home page](/index.html) first.

Once you're ready, you can begin going through our tutorials by clicking the button at the end of this page.
If you want to try the examples listed in the documentation, please <span class="bg-warning">[download the Choral compiler](/install)</span> first.[^try-online]

All the code that we show in the tutorials is available at the following code repository.

<p class="text-center text-monospace">
<i class="fab fa-github"></i> [choral-lang/examples](https://github.com/choral-lang/examples/)
</p>

The tutorials assume that you're familiar with Java or a similar language.
Since Choral's aim is to produce "idiomatic" Java libraries, Choral incorporates many features from the Java language, like classes, interfaces, generics, inheritance, and method overloading.[^lambda]

<div markdown=0 class="text-center">
<a href="/documentation/basics/hello_roles">
<div class="btn btn-outline-info btn-lg">
First tutorial: Hello Roles
</div></a>
</div>

[^article]: Much of the text in these tutorials is an adaptation of material found in the article [Choreographies as Objects](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.09520).

[^try-online]: We're working on adding an online editor. In the meantime, the Choral compiler is a single JAR file that you can easily run from the command line.

[^lambda]: Java programmers can use lambda expressions with the APIs of the libraries generated by Choral. We do not have a syntax for lambda expressions _in Choral code_ implemented yet.